docs: add decentralized masternode shares draft DIP (#185)
dashpay/dips: dip-decentralized-masternode-shares.md

Reviewer: If you do line wrapping, please use something more readable like 100. This wrapping is too narrow imo and actually impairs readability of the raw markdown.

Author: Agreed — 100 columns is more readable here. I will avoid this narrow wrapping going forward and rewrap the draft before marking it ready for final review.

Author: Reflowed the draft to ~100-column prose wrapping in 3e0791e. I also checked that the normalized text content is unchanged, and re-ran markdownlint/cspell.

This DIP specifies those rules. The initial scope is deliberately narrow:
internal collateral only, immutable share amounts and participant set,
immutable refund scripts, immutable participant owner keys, per-share
reward-script self-update, unanimous shared-registrar updates,
operator-authorized service and operator-payout updates, and unilateral or
unanimous dissolution. Partial exit, participant replacement, external
collateral, owner-key rotation, refund-script mutation, relock transactions,
and on-chain fractional governance are out of scope and may be addressed by
future DIPs.

## Prior Work

* [DIP-0002: Special Transactions](dip-0002.md)
* [DIP-0003: Deterministic Masternode Lists](dip-0003.md)
* [DIP-0023: Enhanced Hard Fork Mechanism](dip-0023.md)
* [DIP-0026: Multi-Party Payouts](dip-0026.md)
* [DIP-0028: Evolution Masternodes](dip-0028.md)

## Relationship to DIP-0026

DIP-0026 introduces provider transaction payload version `4` (`MultiPayout`).
Under DIP-0026 v4, the registrar owner remains the sole signer for ProRegTx
and ProUpRegTx, and may freely rewrite the payout list at any time.

This DIP does not modify DIP-0026 v4 semantics. Shared masternodes use a new

> provider transaction payload version, `5` (`SharedCollateral`), with the

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=694a8f93db49 dedupe=d19e0dbf5481ea07 -->
**🔴 Blocking: Provider payload versioning conflicts with the referenced DIP-0026**

This draft normatively claims `DIP-0026 introduces provider transaction payload version 4 (MultiPayout)` and then allocates `SharedCollateral = 5` for v5. The DIP-0026 document checked into this repository (`dip-0026.md` line 46) says it introduces `version 2` of ProRegTx/ProUpRegTx with `payoutShares`/`payoutSharesSize`, and makes no claim about versions 3 or 4. As a result, implementers reading only the merged DIPs cannot determine whether DIP-0026 is v2 or v4, what occupies version 3, or whether `SharedCollateral` should actually be version 3 (next free after DIP-0026) rather than version 5.

The provider payload version is a consensus selector, so this is the kind of registry mismatch the review guidance flags as blocking. Either amend DIP-0026 in this repo to match (renumber its payload to v4 and reserve v3 / specify what it is), or change this DIP's version allocation to be consistent with DIP-0026 as merged. The 'Open Issues' section does not currently cover this dependency, so add it there or in 'Relationship to DIP-0026' with the resolution path.

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

```text
0 <= standardPenalty <= earlyPenalty
earlyPenalty   < min(shares[i].amount)
standardPenalty < min(shares[i].amount)
```

The strict `<` ensures that even the smallest share has a positive remainder
for the unilateral actor after the penalty is paid, so a unilateral
dissolution by any participant always returns a non-zero amount to the actor
before fees.

### Provider Transaction Version

This DIP introduces one new ProRegTx payload version and three new special
transaction types, each with its own independent payload version.

| Name | Value | Applies to |
| --- | ---: | --- |
| `ProTxVersion::SharedCollateral` | 5 | `ProRegTx` payload version for shared-collateral registration and the corresponding shared masternode state. |

`ProTxVersion::SharedCollateral = 5` is the provider transaction payload
version of a v5 `ProRegTx` and is also the version tag carried in the
deterministic masternode state for masternodes registered by such a
transaction. It does NOT apply as the payload version of the new special
transaction types introduced below; those payloads carry their own,
independent `nVersion` field that starts at `1` (see each payload
definition).

> Provider payload version `5` is reserved for shared-collateral semantics.

Reviewer 2: I think that this is a poor decision. It seems to be that we should be able to have a specific individual version to serve both shared and non-shared masternodes. Either we have a flag which indicates shared, or we detect it based on length of the owners or something where only 1 shows it's not shared.

Author: Acknowledged. I removed the paragraph that tried to reserve v5/future versioning as a generic-mode decision. I left the current draft using separate `SharedCollateral = 5`, but called out in the PR description that this is open design feedback to resolve before ready-for-review: separate provider payload version vs one version with an explicit shared flag or share-count discriminator. I did not silently redesign that part without a concrete direction.

Reviewer 2: I am saying this IS the design decision. I do not wish 1 version to mean semantically shared and another to mean not. Instead a flag or something else such as length of scripts should say that

Author: Addressed in 1b778bc by removing the new ProRegTx provider payload version and making shared collateral a v4 mode selected by an explicit `isSharedCollateral` discriminator. The draft now states that non-shared v4 remains governed by DIP-0026, shared behavior gates on `state.isSharedCollateral`, and the registration consent digest commits to the discriminator.

Future protocol changes that affect the single-owner `ProRegTx` flow MUST
use the next available provider payload version (`6` or later) rather than
reusing `5` as a generic mode flag.

| Name | Value | Description |
| --- | ---: | --- |
| `TRANSACTION_PROVIDER_DISSOLVE` | 10 | `ProDisTx` payload (this DIP). |
| `TRANSACTION_PROVIDER_UPDATE_SHARE` | 11 | `ProUpShareTx` payload (this DIP). |
| `TRANSACTION_PROVIDER_UPDATE_SHARED_REGISTRAR` | 12 | `ProUpSharedRegTx` payload (this DIP). |

> The numeric assignments `10`, `11`, and `12` are tentative. Before this DIP

Reviewer 2: Don't have hedging paragraphs like this. For stuff similar to this keep it in the PR description not in the dip.

Author: Done — moved the dependency/merge-blocking prose out of the DIP and into the PR description. The DIP now states the DIP-0026 v4 relationship directly without the PR-status hedging.

  from the transaction and compare it to the `payload.inputsHash` field
  before signature verification; mismatch is invalid.
* `sequencesHash` is the SHA-256d of the concatenation of every input's
  `nSequence` in transaction-input order, each encoded as `LE32(nSequence)`.
  Consensus MUST recompute this from the transaction before signature
  verification. This prevents a coordinator from changing finality, RBF, or
  `nLockTime` behavior after participants produce `joinSig`.
* `outputsHash` is the SHA-256d of the concatenation of every output of
  `tx` in order, each serialized as `(value, scriptPubKey)` using the
  standard Dash transaction-output serialization. Consensus MUST recompute
  this from the transaction; there is no `outputsHash` field on a
  ProRegTx, but the recomputed value is used inside this digest.
* `netInfoSerialized` and `platformFieldsSerialized` use the same encoding
  as in the provider transaction payload itself.
* `pubKeyOperatorSerialized` is the basic-scheme BLS public key
  serialization (48 bytes).
* `sharesWithoutJoinSigs` is the concatenation of every `CollateralShare`
  in share order with the `joinSig` field omitted (treated as a zero-length

>   byte string) so that signatures are not self-referential.

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=495535d24ac7 dedupe=fe328e0cd1b5e630 -->
**🔴 Blocking: `sharesWithoutJoinSigs` serialization is ambiguous and consensus-critical**

The text says `sharesWithoutJoinSigs` is the concatenation of every CollateralShare with the `joinSig` field `omitted (treated as a zero-length byte string)`. Two reasonable readings produce different byte sequences and therefore different SharedRegConsentHash values:

1. The `joinSig` field is omitted entirely — no bytes at all in the concatenation.
2. The `joinSig` field is serialized as a zero-length compact-size bytestring — i.e., the single byte `0x00` (compact-size length 0, followed by no payload bytes), preserving the field's framing.

`CollateralShare` (line 339) defines `joinSig` as `vector<unsigned char>  (compact-size length-prefixed, ...)`, which makes interpretation (2) the natural literal reading of `serialize(share)` with an empty vector — yet the word `omitted` suggests (1). Because every participant signs this digest and consensus recomputes it to verify `joinSig`, divergent implementations would either reject otherwise-valid v5 registrations or, once one implementation is patched, cause a chain split. The DIP must pin one encoding normatively and ideally show pseudocode (e.g., `serialize(share) with joinSig replaced by compact_size(0)` vs. `serialize(share) skipping the joinSig field entirely`).

<sub>source: ['claude']</sub>

#### ProUpShareTx (type 11)

A `ProUpShareTx` updates exactly one share's mutable fields. In this DIP
the only mutable per-share field is `rewardScript`.

```text
CProUpShareTx {
    nVersion     : uint16_t     // MUST be 1 (payload version of this new special tx type)
    proTxHash    : uint256
    shareIndex   : uint16_t     // index into shares[]
    newRewardScript : CScript
    inputsHash   : uint256
    sig          : vector<unsigned char>  // 65 bytes
}
```

`nVersion` here is the independent payload version of the new
`TRANSACTION_PROVIDER_UPDATE_SHARE` special transaction; it is NOT the
provider payload version `ProTxVersion::SharedCollateral = 5` of the v5
`ProRegTx`. The two version namespaces are separate.

Validation:

1. The masternode identified by `proTxHash` MUST exist and MUST be a v5
   masternode.
2. `shareIndex` MUST be less than `shares.size()` in the current state.
3. `newRewardScript` MUST be empty or a standard `P2PKH` or `P2SH` script.
   An empty `newRewardScript` is interpreted as
   `shares[shareIndex].refundScript`.
4. `newRewardScript` MUST satisfy the same key-reuse restrictions as
   registration: it MUST NOT be a P2PKH paying to any

>    `shares[i].ownerKey` and MUST NOT pay to `keyIDVoting`.

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=1edb7c771ed5 dedupe=8bac96f6f7ab464b -->
**💬 Nitpick: ProUpShareTx key-reuse rule wording is inconsistent with registration rule 8**

Registration rule 8 (lines 373–377) restricts `refundScript`/`rewardScript` from being `a P2PKH script paying to` the listed key IDs. ProUpShareTx rule 4 reads `it MUST NOT be a P2PKH paying to any shares[i].ownerKey and MUST NOT pay to keyIDVoting.` The second clause drops the `P2PKH` qualifier, so it can be read either as more restrictive (any script form `paying to` keyIDVoting, which is not well-defined for non-P2PKH templates) or as a wording slip. Aligning the wording with registration rule 8 removes the ambiguity for the consensus check.

```suggestion
4. `newRewardScript` MUST satisfy the same key-reuse restrictions as
   registration: it MUST NOT be a P2PKH paying to any
   `shares[i].ownerKey` and MUST NOT be a P2PKH paying to `keyIDVoting`.
```

<sub>source: ['claude']</sub>

transaction and is unrelated to `ProTxVersion::SharedCollateral = 5`.

Validation:

1. The masternode identified by `proTxHash` MUST exist and MUST be a v5
   masternode.
2. `pubKeyOperator` MUST be a valid basic-scheme BLS public key and MUST
   NOT collide with the operator key of any other registered masternode.
3. `keyIDVoting` MUST NOT equal any `shares[i].ownerKey`.
4. No current `refundScript` and no current effective `rewardScript` may be a
   P2PKH script paying to `keyIDVoting`. For this check, an empty
   `rewardScript` is interpreted as the corresponding `refundScript`.
5. `nOperatorReward <= 10000`.
6. `inputsHash` MUST equal `CalcTxInputsHash(tx)`.
7. `vchSigs.size()` MUST equal `shares.size()`.
8. For each `i` in `[0, shares.size())`, `vchSigs[i]` MUST be a valid
   ECDSA compact signature by `shares[i].ownerKey` over:

   ```text
   SHA256d("DashSharedMNUpSharedReg" ||
           chainGenesisHash ||
           LE16(tx.nVersion) || LE16(tx.nType) || LE32(tx.nLockTime) ||
           inputsHash ||
           LE16(payload.nVersion) ||
           proTxHash || pubKeyOperatorSerialized ||
           keyIDVoting || LE16(nOperatorReward))

>    ```

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=47fc79ef7d1b dedupe=5a6e270bb2ff325b -->
**🔴 Blocking: ProUpShareTx and ProUpSharedRegTx digests sign nLockTime without binding input sequences**

The registration digest (line 468) commits to `sequencesHash`, and the dissolution digest (line 775) explicitly commits to `tx.vin[0].nSequence`; in both cases the DIP states the reason is to stop a coordinator/fee-payer from changing finality, RBF, or `nLockTime` semantics after participants sign (lines 500–504, 783–787). The ProUpShareTx digest (lines 573–580) and the ProUpSharedRegTx digest (lines 628–636) commit only to `inputsHash`, `tx.nLockTime`, and `tx.nVersion`/`tx.nType`; they bind no input `nSequence`.

Because `nLockTime` is only enforced when at least one input has a non-final sequence, a party that controls or replaces the funding input signatures (which need not be SIGHASH_ALL/AC-payable in a way that commits to sequences) can flip an input to a final sequence after the participant signs, effectively neutralising the signed `nLockTime` (e.g., causing a future-dated reward-script update or shared-registrar update to take effect immediately). The risk is particularly acute for ProUpSharedRegTx, where every participant signs but a separate broadcaster/fee-payer typically supplies the funding inputs.

Mirror the registration/dissolution model by adding `sequencesHash` (or an enumerated commitment to each input's `nSequence`) to both update digests, or — if the omission is deliberate because these updates do not bind finality — add a normative one-line note explaining why and remove `nLockTime` from these digests so implementers do not believe the spec enforces something it does not.

<sub>source: ['claude', 'codex']</sub>

    as the v5 ProRegTx that creates its shared collateral output is
    invalid on the same basis as the unilateral case.
21. A `ProDisTx` (unilateral or unanimous) that spends the shared
    collateral outpoint of a v5 masternode whose v5 ProRegTx was
    confirmed in a strictly earlier block, and that otherwise
    satisfies every covenant rule, is valid; the masternode is
    removed when this block is connected.
22. An ordinary transaction whose input spends an unrelated UTXO that
    happens to pay `SHARED_COLLATERAL_SCRIPT` but is NOT a recorded
    active shared collateral outpoint and is NOT a same-block pending
    shared collateral outpoint is NOT rejected by the covenant;
    whether it succeeds depends only on ordinary script evaluation of
    the underlying redeem script.

### Reorg

1. Disconnecting a block containing a v5 ProRegTx fully removes the
   masternode entry, including all share state.
2. Disconnecting a block containing a `ProUpShareTx` restores the
   prior `rewardScript`.
3. Disconnecting a block containing a `ProDisTx` restores the v5
   masternode entry with its full share state.
4. A reorg that replays a `ProUpSharedRegTx` followed by a `ProDisTx`

>    in a different order produces the same final state.

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=ba6776f8765b dedupe=8b0e0c7526f4a257 -->
**💬 Nitpick: Reorg test case 4 description is logically inconsistent**

Test case 4 says `A reorg that replays a ProUpSharedRegTx followed by a ProDisTx in a different order produces the same final state.` Read literally, the two orders are `[ProUpSharedRegTx, ProDisTx]` and `[ProDisTx, ProUpSharedRegTx]`. Under this spec a valid `ProDisTx` removes the masternode entry, so the subsequent `ProUpSharedRegTx` against the same `proTxHash` would be invalid (the masternode no longer exists). The two orders cannot both produce the same successful final state. Reword so the test target is unambiguous (e.g., independent updates on disjoint masternodes interleaved across a reorg, or that disconnect-then-reconnect reproduces the original deterministic state regardless of intra-block ordering).

<sub>source: ['claude']</sub>

    invalid on the same basis as the unilateral case.
22. A `ProDisTx` (unilateral or unanimous) that spends the shared
    collateral outpoint of a v5 masternode whose v5 ProRegTx was
    confirmed in a strictly earlier block, and that otherwise
    satisfies every covenant rule, is valid; the masternode is
    removed when this block is connected.
23. An ordinary transaction whose input spends an unrelated UTXO that
    happens to pay `SHARED_COLLATERAL_SCRIPT` but is NOT a recorded
    registered shared collateral outpoint and is NOT a same-block pending
    shared collateral outpoint is NOT rejected by the covenant;
    whether it succeeds depends only on ordinary script evaluation of
    the underlying redeem script.

### Reorg

1. Disconnecting a block containing a v5 ProRegTx fully removes the
   masternode entry, including all share state.
2. Disconnecting a block containing a `ProUpShareTx` restores the
   prior `rewardScript`.
3. Disconnecting a block containing a `ProDisTx` restores the v5
   masternode entry with its full share state.
4. A reorg that replays a `ProUpSharedRegTx` followed by a `ProDisTx`

>    in a different order produces the same final state.

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=e84ced2dd779 dedupe=2b10ad0aeb4c0d1f -->
**🟡 Suggestion: Reorg test #4 wording conflicts with the update-target-must-exist rule**

Test 4 states that replaying a `ProUpSharedRegTx` followed by a `ProDisTx` 'in a different order' produces the same final state. Read literally, swapping the order places the `ProDisTx` first, which under the normative rules at lines 615-616 (the masternode identified by `proTxHash` MUST exist and MUST be a v5 masternode) and the dissolution-removes-the-entry semantics makes the later `ProUpSharedRegTx` invalid because the masternode no longer exists. The intent appears to be disconnect/reconnect determinism along the original chain order, not a branch with reversed transaction ordering. Tighten the wording so implementers do not infer that order-swapped reorg branches must converge.

```suggestion
4. A reorg that disconnects and then reconnects a chain containing a
   `ProUpSharedRegTx` followed by a later `ProDisTx` in the original chain
   order produces the same final removed state. A branch that places the
   `ProDisTx` before the `ProUpSharedRegTx` for the same `proTxHash` MUST
   reject the later update because the masternode no longer exists.
```

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 reconcile=resolved -->
Resolved in `7c91aa5` — _Reorg test #4 wording conflicts with the update-target-must-exist rule_ no longer present.

<sub>Auto-resolved by the review system based on the latest commit diff. If you believe this was closed in error, reopen the thread.</sub>

9. `joinSig` is a 65-byte compact ECDSA signature by `ownerKey` over the
   registration consent digest defined in [Registration Consent
   Digest](#registration-consent-digest). Any other length or any
   signature that does not verify under `ownerKey` is invalid.

### Shared Registration (ProRegTx v5)

A v5 ProRegTx has the same general layout as the v4 ProRegTx from DIP-0026
with the following differences. Field positions for a v5 payload are
specified normatively below; this list is exhaustive and replaces the v4
ProRegTx layout for `nVersion == 5`.

| Field | Type | Notes |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `nVersion` | `uint16_t` | MUST be `5`. |
| `nType` | `MnType` (`uint16_t`) | `Regular` or `Evo`. |
| `nMode` | `uint16_t` | MUST be `0`. |
| `collateralOutpoint.hash` | `uint256` | MUST be the null hash. |
| `collateralOutpoint.n` | `uint32_t` | Index of the shared collateral output within this transaction. |
| `netInfo` | DIP-0003/0028 net info | As for v4. |
| `pubKeyOperator` | BLS public key (basic scheme) | As for v4. |
| `keyIDVoting` | `CKeyID` | As for v4. |
| `nOperatorReward` | `uint16_t` | Basis points; MUST be from 0 to 10000. |

> | `shares` | `CollateralShare[]` | 2 to 8 entries; per [Collateral Share](#collateral-share). |

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=cb957e64d1f4 dedupe=82ade87c9466b6b3 -->
**🟡 Suggestion: Specify on-wire framing for the share vector**

The v5 ProRegTx layout claims to be exhaustive and normative for `nVersion == 5`, but the `shares` row only says `CollateralShare[]` without naming the vector's length prefix. Every other vector in this DIP — `refundScript`, `rewardScript`, `joinSig`, and `vchSigs` — explicitly calls out `compact-size length-prefixed`, and the registration consent digest separately uses `LE8(shares.size())`. A reader synthesising the payload framing from those two sources alone could plausibly serialize the outer count as either CompactSize or LE8. CompactSize is the Dash/Bitcoin convention for top-level vectors, but the asymmetry with neighbouring vector fields is the kind of ambiguity the spec elsewhere takes care to remove. Add an explicit `sharesSize` row (or an inline note that `CollateralShare[]` is a CompactSize-prefixed vector) so the byte boundary preceding `earlyPeriodBlocks` is unambiguous.

```suggestion
| `sharesSize` | `CompactSize uint` | Number of share entries; MUST be 2 to 8. |
| `shares` | `CollateralShare[sharesSize]` | Entries serialized in share order; each entry is per [Collateral Share](#collateral-share). |
```

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 reconcile=resolved -->
Resolved in `113b147` — _Specify on-wire framing for the share vector_ no longer present.

<sub>Auto-resolved by the review system based on the latest commit diff. If you believe this was closed in error, reopen the thread.</sub>

| `earlyPenalty` | `CAmount` | Frozen at registration. |
| `standardPenalty` | `CAmount` | Frozen at registration. |

The fields `scriptPayout` and `payouts` are unused for v5 masternodes and
MUST be serialized as empty. `keyIDOwner` is absent from the v5 payload and
MUST NOT participate in v5 validation or uniqueness indexes. If an
implementation's deterministic state object contains a legacy `keyIDOwner`
field, that field MUST be serialized as null/zero for v5 masternodes and MUST
be ignored whenever `isSharedCollateral` is true.

State diffs MUST be version-gated:

1. The state-diff bitfield gains a new field bit for the share vector.
   Any change to any field of any `shares[i]` (including a
   per-share `rewardScript` change from a `ProUpShareTx`) MUST produce
   a state diff in which the entire share vector is fully replaced.
   This full-replacement encoding is the single canonical
   representation of a v5 share-state diff: compact diffs, per-share
   field diffs, and any other alternative encoding of share-vector
   changes are NOT permitted. Implementations MUST emit and accept
   share-vector changes only as a full replacement of the share

>    vector.

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=fb0241ed59cf dedupe=153e6130ba1415f3 -->
**🟡 Suggestion: Assign the share-vector state-diff bit or mark it as a pre-activation open item**

This clause makes the share-vector diff encoding normative (full replacement is the single canonical representation), but it only says the state-diff bitfield 'gains a new field bit' without assigning the bit value. The state-diff bitfield is a consensus selector for how serialized deterministic-MN state diffs are decoded, so leaving the value unspecified prevents implementers from independently producing interoperable snapshots and reorg-replay payloads. The Open Issues section (line 1634) already enumerates other pre-activation deferred items (SHARED_MIN_SHARE_DUFFS, activation deployment name) — either assign the exact bit value here or add an explicit entry to Open Issues so the gap is tracked.

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 reconcile=resolved -->
Resolved in `113b147` — _Assign the share-vector state-diff bit or mark it as a pre-activation open item_ no longer present.

<sub>Auto-resolved by the review system based on the latest commit diff. If you believe this was closed in error, reopen the thread.</sub>

| Name | Type | Encoding |
| --- | --- | --- |
| `isSharedCollateral` | `uint8_t` | `0x00` for non-shared (DIP-0026 multi-payout) mode; `0x01` for shared-collateral mode. Any other value is invalid. |

The discriminator selects mutually exclusive variant fields in the same v4
payload:

* `isSharedCollateral == false`: the v4 payload follows the unchanged
  DIP-0026 multi-payout layout (single `keyIDOwner`, `scriptPayout` /
  `payouts`, no share table, no shared collateral output, no penalty
  parameters, no `earlyPeriodBlocks`). All DIP-0026 v4 semantics, validation,
  state, and authorization apply verbatim and are unaffected by this DIP.
* `isSharedCollateral == true`: the v4 payload follows the shared-collateral
  layout defined in [Shared Registration (ProRegTx v4, shared
  mode)](#shared-registration-proregtx-v4-shared-mode) (no `keyIDOwner`, no
  `scriptPayout`, no `payouts`, a `CollateralShare[]` table, an internal
  collateral output that pays `SHARED_COLLATERAL_SCRIPT`, and per-masternode
  penalty parameters). The shared-collateral variant is selected solely by
  the discriminator; consensus MUST NOT infer the variant from any other

>   field length, script shape, or output count.

Author: <!-- thepastaclaw-review v1 finding=24a57e8a0001 dedupe=3f31ef8f7dc2042a -->
**🔴 Blocking: Discriminator byte position must be reserved by DIP-0026 v4 or moved to its own payload version**

This section makes `isSharedCollateral` a `uint8_t` placed in the v4 ProRegTx payload after `nMode` (Section 5.6 confirms the position at line 428-429), and then states that `isSharedCollateral == 0x00` payloads `follow the unchanged DIP-0026 multi-payout layout` (line 232-236) and `deserialize and validate exactly as DIP-0026 specifies` (line 1330-1333). DIP-0026 v4 is itself a pending/unmerged dependency (acknowledged at line 168 as the `pending DIP-0026 v4 design`), and nothing in this DIP or in the current repository copy of DIP-0026 records that DIP-0026 v4 reserves a discriminator byte at that position. As written, a shared-mode parser consumes one byte after `nMode` to select the variant, while a DIP-0026 v4 non-shared parser would treat that same byte as the first byte of `collateralOutpoint.hash`. The two parsers therefore frame the same v4 bytes differently, which shifts the rest of the payload for non-shared v4 registrations, invalidates payload hashes/signatures across implementations, and turns valid external-collateral hashes that happen to begin with a byte other than `0x00` into illegal discriminator values. Before activation, either DIP-0026 v4 must explicitly reserve this discriminator byte at the same wire offset for all v4 ProRegTx payloads (and that coordination must be called out here as an unresolved cross-DIP dependency in `Open Issues`), or shared collateral must be carried by a distinct provider payload version so the wire-format selector is unambiguous. The current `Open Issues` section does not list this coordination, and the rationale at line 1317-1333 argues against a separate version without addressing the framing prerequisite.

<sub>source: ['codex']</sub>
